Docs/tryme.md, before:

# Trying R2 

The goal here is to provide a test setup as below, where R2_client1 and R2_client2 are two docker containers from which we can originate packets like ping and R2 in the middle, is the router.

```c
R2_client1 [veth_c2_1]----[veth_r2_1] R2 [veth_r2_2]----[veth_c2_2] R2_client2
             1.1.1.1        1.1.1.2        2.1.1.2        2.1.1.1
```

The steps below have been tested on brand new Ubuntu installations 18.04 and 16.04 server AND desktop. So for other versions of ubuntu or other distributions of linux, or if you have an already running ubuntu you have mucked around with, there might have to be some modifications to the steps below. 14.04 ubuntu has a different set of steps to install docker, so I did not list that here, but if you have 14.04, just get docker and docker CLIs installed (step 2) and rest of the steps are the same. Also you might have some packages already like git, gcc etc.. in which case those apt-gets are just ignored

## Four steps

1. Install rust as mentioned here - <https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install>

   ```c
   sudo apt install curl
   sudo apt install gcc
   curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
   ```

2. Install docker as below. Docker installation steps below should go through fine. But in case you face issues, more docker information is here <https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/>.

   ```c
   sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common
   curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
   sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install -y docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
   sudo docker pull busybox
   ```

3. Download the source code from here - <https://github.com/gopakumarce/R2>
  
   ```c
   sudo apt install git
   git clone git@github.com:gopakumarce/R2.git
   ```

4. In the R2 source code root directory, type the below command. The first time compilation can take a few seconds, the R2 build system cargo downloads source code for all dependencies and compiles them them the first time.

   ```c
   cd R2
   sudo ./tryme.sh
   ```

## Play around, have fun

Once step4 is complete, attach to the containers, type route -n, ifconfig etc.. to see the interfaces and ip addresses, and ping from one container to the other. The ping gets routed via R2. Use commands below to attach to either container, ctrl-d to exit. Commands to attach to each container and ping the ip address in the other container, is below. R2 itself does not respond to ping today, so if you ping R2 itself, that will fail.

```c
sudo docker exec -it R2_client1 sh
ping 2.1.1.1
sudo docker exec -it R2_client2 sh
ping 1.1.1.1
```

You can play around further for example by adding more loopback interfaces inside the containers, assign it ip addresses like 3.1.1.1, 4.1.1.1 etc.. and add routes in R2 to point the route to the right container interface NOTE: So why dint we have to add routes for the simple setup above ? Its because we were just pinging the connected subnets of each interface. And R2 by default inserts a connected/network route for its interfaces

```c
sudo ./target/debug/r2rt route 3.1.1.1/32 2.1.1.1 veth_r2_2
sudo ./target/debug/r2rt route 4.1.1.1/32 1.1.1.1 veth_r2_1
```

## Contributing to R2 

Note that the tryme.sh does the compilation (cargo build), and since tryme.sh is run as sudo to create interfaces etc.., the build target objects will be created with different permissions. You can do a 'sudo cargo clean' and build again without sudo.

To contribute to R2, pull R2, make bug fixes, run "cargo test" and ensure everything passes and send a merge request. If you are adding new functionalities, there should be unit test cases which can be run by cargo test.

Commit message:

There are primarily three things being done here.
1. The Packet/Particle structure had a raw pointer from which we were
   making slices and handing it out to applications that need to read
   or write to/from the packet. There were concerns (as seen in the
   issue details) that its not done the proper Rust way, and someone
   had suggested replacing the pointer in the struct with an &[]  slice
   and introducing proper lifetimes. So thats the primary change here,
   the raw pointer is now a slice, and it has a static lifetime. See
   Docs/lifetimes.md for details on that.

2. There was a comment about not using global packet pools and having
   per thread pools. I was not convinced about it in the beginning, but
   some more thinking about it has swayed me in favour of the idea, so
   now I have per thread pools configured. So the packets that are handed
   off to other threads are freed back into a queue (one per thread) and
   the thread that owns that packet will pick it up from the queue and
   free it back to its own pool. See packet/packet.md for details

3. There was another comment about explicitly passing String where needed
   rather than passing &str and hiding the internal conversion to String,
   taken care of that in few places

Things not taken care of: the reddit comment thread also talked about freezing
the packet into a read-only structure before handing off to another thread. My
code already works in such a fashion that a packet is completely formed (written)
inside one thread and the handoff is purely done to send it out of a driver that
is handled by another thread - so its already in a mode where the other thread
just reads the packet. Enforcing the read-only via structure changes is not
hard, I plan to do it in a future commit

Fixes: #16

Docs/tryme.md, after:

# Trying R2 

The goal here is to provide a test setup as below, where R2_client1 and R2_client2 are two docker containers from which we can originate packets like ping and R2 in the middle, is the router.

```c
R2_client1 [veth_c2_1]----[veth_r2_1] R2 [veth_r2_2]----[veth_c2_2] R2_client2
             1.1.1.1        1.1.1.2        2.1.1.2        2.1.1.1
```

The steps below have been tested on brand new Ubuntu installations 18.04 and 16.04 server AND desktop. So for other versions of ubuntu or other distributions of linux, or if you have an already running ubuntu you have mucked around with, there might have to be some modifications to the steps below. 14.04 ubuntu has a different set of steps to install docker, so I did not list that here, but if you have 14.04, just get docker and docker CLIs installed (step 2) and rest of the steps are the same. Also you might have some packages already like git, gcc etc.. in which case those apt-gets are just ignored

## Four steps

1. Install rust as mentioned here - <https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install>

   ```c
   sudo apt install curl
   sudo apt install gcc
   curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://sh.rustup.rs | sh
   ```

2. Install docker as below. Docker installation steps below should go through fine. But in case you face issues, more docker information is here <https://docs.docker.com/install/linux/docker-ce/ubuntu/>.

   ```c
   sudo apt-get install -y apt-transport-https ca-certificates curl gnupg-agent software-properties-common
   curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
   sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu $(lsb_release -cs) stable"
   sudo apt-get update
   sudo apt-get install -y docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io
   sudo docker pull busybox
   ```

3. Download the source code from here - <https://github.com/gopakumarce/R2>
  
   ```c
   sudo apt install git
   git clone git@github.com:gopakumarce/R2.git
   ```

4. In the R2 source code root directory, type the below command. The first two commands 'sudo usermod' and 'newgrp docker' adds your user to the docker group so you can create docker containers etc.. with your userid. The first time compilation can take a few seconds, the R2 build system 'cargo', downloads source code for all dependencies and compiles them them the first time. NOTE: Various things inside the script like creating new interfaces etc.., are also run with 'sudo' permissions

   ```c
   sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
   newgrp docker
   cd R2
   ./tryme.sh
   ```

## Play around, have fun

Once step4 is complete, attach to the containers, type route -n, ifconfig etc.. to see the interfaces and ip addresses, and ping from one container to the other. The ping gets routed via R2. Use commands below to attach to either container, ctrl-d to exit. Commands to attach to each container and ping the ip address in the other container, is below. R2 itself does not respond to ping today, so if you ping R2 itself, that will fail.

```c
docker exec -it R2_client1 sh
ping 2.1.1.1
docker exec -it R2_client2 sh
ping 1.1.1.1
```

You can play around further for example by adding more loopback interfaces inside the containers, assign it ip addresses like 3.1.1.1, 4.1.1.1 etc.. and add routes in R2 to point the route to the right container interface NOTE: So why dint we have to add routes for the simple setup above ? Its because we were just pinging the connected subnets of each interface. And R2 by default inserts a connected/network route for its interfaces

```c
sudo ./target/debug/r2rt route 3.1.1.1/32 2.1.1.1 veth_r2_2
sudo ./target/debug/r2rt route 4.1.1.1/32 1.1.1.1 veth_r2_1
```

## Contributing to R2 

To contribute to R2, pull R2, make bug fixes, run "cargo test" and ensure everything passes and send a merge request. If you are adding new functionalities, there should be unit test cases which can be run by cargo test.
